I just want to spend a minute to help
you get started in thumb and finger
style and the the key to doing it well
is having the thumb independent from the
fingers so when you're starting out
first of all get yourself a pump pick
one that fits nice and that won't move
around on your thumb now the thumb plays
the bass and the kind of half the rhythm
part as well so you get this sound boom
chick boom chick Python so you put your
fingers down here and leave them there
don't let your fingers do anything start
with the thumb first so you spell out
the chord like that C up to F G C like
that when you can do that and get a
groove going with it you'll feel that
what will happen is your fingers will
want to come up and play the second note
that I want to go because that's natural
everybody does that but what you going
to do is you got to break that cycle so
you got to leave your hands down and get
the thumb doing all that pop there now
step two you leave your pinkie down and
play and spell the chords out with your
three fingers while keeping the bass
going so and good
good
okay now when you can do that that's a
good thing so now if you want to get a
little more technical you can you can do
our PG O's with your fingers kind of
spelling out the notes like this
Oh
so I'll do that and mute the bass now so
you get
and so that technique of keeping the
bass going you're spelling the things
well then if you practice that enough
you'll then be able to have the ability
to play a song so there are so many
great songs to choose from I always
teach free train as the first song that
people should learn and you've got to
learn it bar by bar very slowly so you
work out the melody
see that so then you you've got to keep
the base going now so you get
see that
and you practice that up until it sounds
like music
then you can do a key change if you want
so for phone you can you can make
arrangements of it by using this this
technique because lots of songs to
choose from Chet Atkins has so many good
songs that you could learn some of them
written by Jerry Reed
I recommend babies coming home that's a
great song to learn and Chet's
arrangement of bye-bye blackbird is
really wonderful so there's a lot of
songs to choose from and and I wish you
a lot of luck go steady and and be
thorough about it and it'll all work